README  Folder/PROJECTREADME.md, before:

# User-Centric-Front-End-Development-Milestone-Project
User Centric Front End Development Milestone Project

## Our World.

My project "Our World" hopes to inform the public on the natural world's current 
state, including climate change, deforesation, ocean pollution and air pollution. I decided to base my project on this 
for a few reasons, one being that I'm passionate about world preservation and helping
people see the good they can do with small changes to the way they lead their lives.

My project aim is to showcase what we are doing to our world. I will achieve this
through videos, pictures, and informative text. I also plan on having links to other,
real informative websites.

## UX
The website is directed at teens and adults. The idea is that these individuals wish to do better for our world. The website will enable this by giving them information under the "Make a Difference" tab that will allow them to see what changes they can make to help do less damage to the earth.

**An ideal viewer of this website would be someone that:**
* Doesn't recycle
* Drives a fuel-powered car
* Open-minded indivduals willing to change certain habits

**The viewer would be visiting my site if they are:**
* Looking to educate themselves on natural affairs
* Looking to make changes in their daily life to help the environment

**The website can help to achieve that because:**
* There are not enough websites that look to help educate an audience on this topic
* It's easily digestable information

The visitor should be able to navigate through the website with ease, regardless of which page or section they are on. It should be a seamless desktop-to-phone view, that allows for comfortable viewing on multiple devices. I want visitors to feel encouraged to contact the company if they wish to ask questions or discuss the natural affairs of our world. 

The website is not designed for returning clients. A visitor should leave the website feeling more solid with their knowledge on the topic and be then able to make changes to their lives if they see fit.

This website is not designed to produce any form of income, however it does have a donate option to allow people to put money toward various organisations. 

Here's the link to my first planning mockup: https://imgur.com/a/ZxeWJ1a

Here's the link to my second planning mockup:https://imgur.com/a/ZxeWJ1a.png

## Features

**Universal Website Features**

Header:
The header contains 4 links. The "Our World" title leads to Google Earth, as a quaint reference to what the website is about. The other links are "Who Are We?", "Make a Difference" and "Donate". The header collapses with screen width. 

Footer: The footer brings social links to the work, as well as a secondary navigation to allow ease of access after reaching the bottom of the page. Including a Contact tab as well, with a link that directly opens up a draft email to the ficitonal company. These footer features collapses into columns with width changes.

Newsletter:
The newsletter is a feature that would theoretically allow users to sign up for weekly, informative news. 

**The Home Page**

Callout:
The callout contains impact text and a youtube video discussing the catastrophic fires in the amazon rainforest. On mobile devices this video retains and is simply reduced in size. 

Gallery:
The gallery has some photos of the environment in peril, coupled with a box of brief information. When viewing this part of the website on a mobile device or tablet, the gallery shrinks, the text box disappears and an image carousel replaces the section. 

**The "Who Are We?" Page**



## Existing Features

* The "Our World" title feature allows the user to visit Google Earth by clicking the title.
* The Youtube video feature showcases major deforestation to the user by having them click play.
* The image slider feature, while only visible in mobile view, allows the user to see the gallery in a more refined, close space.
* The newsletter feature allows the user to sign up to the weekly newsletter by entering a valid email.
* The email feature Opens up the users mail and inputs Our World's hyopthetical email when clicking the button in the contact tab. 


## Features Left to Implement

- Even though the image slider is now functional, it does not have controls. At this moment in time, I do not possess enough knowledge to do this with just html / css. I believe further studies into javascript will help me achieve this goal.
- Possibly allowing the user to see a pinned location on google maps when hovering over a certain image.
- An interactive game about taking out trash for children, expanding the website's audience.

Javascript for pop ups 


## Technologies Used
In this section, you should mention all of the languages, frameworks, libraries, and any other tools that you have used to construct this project. For each, provide its name, a link to its official site and a short sentence of why it was used.

No languages were used in the coding of this project. It is pure HTML / CSS. No framworks or libraries were used. 



JQuery
The project uses JQuery to simplify DOM manipulation.

## Testing
In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

Whenever it is feasible, prefer to automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant. A particularly useful form for describing your testing process is via scenarios, such as:

Contact form:
Go to the "Contact Us" page
Try to submit the empty form and verify that an error message about the required fields appears
Try to submit the form with an invalid email address and verify that a relevant error message appears
Try to submit the form with all inputs valid and verify that a success message appears.
In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

Upon writing this, I've completed most of the difficult stuff in my code and have only a few things to add like the "Who Are We?" page etc. 

During the time spent coding, I encountered various issues with my code. The most difficult one for me was figuring out how to correctly format and position parts of my website. I struggled to the content of my gallery where I wanted it. I originally had it all it div containers, which didn't allow for much customisation without the use of floats. I'm not a fan of using floats, so I did some research into flexbox. I experimented with it until I eventually was able to completely remove the old code I had and replace it with some new, refined flexbox code. This allowed me to have a much more flexible gallery that was even and precise. Customisation became easy and this solved one of my biggest issues with this project. I ran into a few, smaller issues along the way, however. 

I had an issue with embedding the video into my callout area. At first, I didn't use a youtube video. I had downloaded the video and implemented it locally. This proved difficult as I'm not yet experienced enough to create controls for that. On top of that, I couldn't get the width to adjust properly. So I left it for a couple days and decided to use a youtube video instead. After a few tutorials, I was able to figure out the width issue - and because it was an embedded video, I was able to have all the controls for quality, volume etc providing a more solid UX than my previous embedded video. 

Another issue, albeit a lot yes difficult to fix was an issue with my header. I wanted the navigation to sit underb

## Deployment
This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).

In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:

Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
Different configuration files?
Separate git branch?
In addition, if it is not obvious, you should also describe how to run your code locally.

## Credits


## Media Used:
https://www.offshore-technology.com/news/optical-remote-sensing-provides-ocean-oil-spill-data/

https://www.niehs.nih.gov/health/topics/agents/air-pollution/index.cfm

https://springpowerandgas.us/how-do-we-pollute-9-types-of-ocean-pollution/

https://www.inyourarea.co.uk/news/canary-wharf-tops-out-the-uks-tallest-residential-skyscraper-newfoundland-available-to-rent-in-2020/

https://www.plantbasednews.org/news/bali-bans-single-use-plastic

https://emerging-europe.com/news/air-pollution-may-have-adverse-effect-on-covid-19-patients-experts-warn/

https://www.rainforest-alliance.org/articles/relationship-between-deforestation-climate-change

## Acknowledgements

I'd like to thank Mr. Bim in the Slack chat for helping me when I was stuck.

Using the following video, I was able to understand and build an image slider.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pGHOaY4dhAA&t=211s

Commit message:

Added text to the new flexboxes on the Make a Difference page. Added new comments to the CSS and the HTML for that same page.

README  Folder/PROJECTREADME.md, after:

# User-Centric-Front-End-Development-Milestone-Project
User Centric Front End Development Milestone Project

## Our World.

My project "Our World" hopes to inform the public on the natural world's current 
state, including climate change, deforesation, ocean pollution and air pollution. I decided to base my project on this 
for a few reasons, one being that I'm passionate about world preservation and helping
people see the good they can do with small changes to the way they lead their lives.

My project aim is to showcase what we are doing to our world. I will achieve this
through videos, pictures, and informative text. I also plan on having links to other,
real informative websites.

## UX
The website is directed at teens and adults. The idea is that these individuals wish to do better for our world. The website will enable this by giving them information under the "Make a Difference" tab that will allow them to see what changes they can make to help do less damage to the earth.

**An ideal viewer of this website would be someone that:**
* Doesn't recycle
* Drives a fuel-powered car
* Open-minded indivduals willing to change certain habits

**The viewer would be visiting my site if they are:**
* Looking to educate themselves on natural affairs
* Looking to make changes in their daily life to help the environment

**The website can help to achieve that because:**
* There are not enough websites that look to help educate an audience on this topic
* It's easily digestable information

The visitor should be able to navigate through the website with ease, regardless of which page or section they are on. It should be a seamless desktop-to-phone view, that allows for comfortable viewing on multiple devices. I want visitors to feel encouraged to contact the company if they wish to ask questions or discuss the natural affairs of our world. 

The website is not designed for returning clients. A visitor should leave the website feeling more solid with their knowledge on the topic and be then able to make changes to their lives if they see fit.

This website is not designed to produce any form of income, however it does have a donate option to allow people to put money toward various organisations. 

Here's the link to my first planning mockup: https://imgur.com/a/ZxeWJ1a

Here's the link to my second planning mockup:https://imgur.com/a/ZxeWJ1a.png

## Features

**Universal Website Features**

Header:
The header contains 4 links. The "Our World" title leads to Google Earth, as a quaint reference to what the website is about. The other links are "Who Are We?", "Make a Difference" and "Donate". The header collapses with screen width. 

Footer: The footer brings social links to the work, as well as a secondary navigation to allow ease of access after reaching the bottom of the page. Including a Contact tab as well, with a link that directly opens up a draft email to the ficitonal company. These footer features collapses into columns with width changes.

Newsletter:
The newsletter is a feature that would theoretically allow users to sign up for weekly, informative news. 

**The Home Page**

Callout:
The callout contains impact text and a youtube video discussing the catastrophic fires in the amazon rainforest. On mobile devices this video retains and is simply reduced in size. 

Gallery:
The gallery has some photos of the environment in peril, coupled with a box of brief information. When viewing this part of the website on a mobile device or tablet, the gallery shrinks, the text box disappears and an image carousel replaces the section. 

**The "Who Are We?" Page**



## Existing Features

* The "Our World" title feature allows the user to visit Google Earth by clicking the title.
* The Youtube video feature showcases major deforestation to the user by having them click play.
* The image slider feature, while only visible in mobile view, allows the user to see the gallery in a more refined, close space.
* The newsletter feature allows the user to sign up to the weekly newsletter by entering a valid email.
* The email feature Opens up the users mail and inputs Our World's hyopthetical email when clicking the button in the contact tab. 


## Features Left to Implement

- Even though the image slider is now functional, it does not have controls. At this moment in time, I do not possess enough knowledge to do this with just html / css. I believe further studies into javascript will help me achieve this goal.
- Possibly allowing the user to see a pinned location on google maps when hovering over a certain image.
- An interactive game about taking out trash for children, expanding the website's audience.

Javascript for pop ups 


## Technologies Used

No languages were used in the coding of this project. It is pure HTML / CSS. No framworks or libraries were used. 

JQuery
The project uses JQuery to simplify DOM manipulation.

## Testing
In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

Whenever it is feasible, prefer to automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant. A particularly useful form for describing your testing process is via scenarios, such as:

Contact form:
Go to the "Contact Us" page
Try to submit the empty form and verify that an error message about the required fields appears
Try to submit the form with an invalid email address and verify that a relevant error message appears
Try to submit the form with all inputs valid and verify that a success message appears.
In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

Upon writing this, I've completed most of the difficult stuff in my code and have only a few things to add like the "Who Are We?" page etc. 

During the time spent coding, I encountered various issues with my code. The most difficult one for me was figuring out how to correctly format and position parts of my website. I struggled to the content of my gallery where I wanted it. I originally had it all it div containers, which didn't allow for much customisation without the use of floats. I'm not a fan of using floats, so I did some research into flexbox. I experimented with it until I eventually was able to completely remove the old code I had and replace it with some new, refined flexbox code. This allowed me to have a much more flexible gallery that was even and precise. Customisation became easy and this solved one of my biggest issues with this project. I ran into a few, smaller issues along the way, however. 

I had an issue with embedding the video into my callout area. At first, I didn't use a youtube video. I had downloaded the video and implemented it locally. This proved difficult as I'm not yet experienced enough to create controls for that. On top of that, I couldn't get the width to adjust properly. So I left it for a couple days and decided to use a youtube video instead. After a few tutorials, I was able to figure out the width issue - and because it was an embedded video, I was able to have all the controls for quality, volume etc providing a more solid UX than my previous embedded video. 

Another issue, albeit a lot yes difficult to fix was an issue with my header. I wanted the navigation to sit underb

## Deployment
This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).

In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:

Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
Different configuration files?
Separate git branch?
In addition, if it is not obvious, you should also describe how to run your code locally.

## Credits

https://www.rubicon.com/blog/ocean-pollution-facts/ - For the paragraph on Ocean Pollution.

https://www.conserve-energy-future.com/various-deforestation-facts.php - For the paragraph on Deforesation.


## Media Used:
https://www.offshore-technology.com/news/optical-remote-sensing-provides-ocean-oil-spill-data/

https://www.niehs.nih.gov/health/topics/agents/air-pollution/index.cfm

https://springpowerandgas.us/how-do-we-pollute-9-types-of-ocean-pollution/

https://www.inyourarea.co.uk/news/canary-wharf-tops-out-the-uks-tallest-residential-skyscraper-newfoundland-available-to-rent-in-2020/

https://www.plantbasednews.org/news/bali-bans-single-use-plastic

https://emerging-europe.com/news/air-pollution-may-have-adverse-effect-on-covid-19-patients-experts-warn/

https://www.rainforest-alliance.org/articles/relationship-between-deforestation-climate-change

https://www.elitereaders.com/damaged-nature/

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-10-30/melting-greenland-glaciers-weighed-by-australian-scientists/11630970

https://www.commondreams.org/news/2019/09/13/amazon-rainforest-burns-brazils-environment-minister-meet-us-group-denies-climate

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/13/science/air-pollution-fires-genes.html?smid=tw-nytimesworld&smtyp=cur



Google Fonts:
https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Raleway?preview.text=OUR+WORLD&preview.text_type=custom

https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Noto+Sans+JP?preview.text=OUR+WORLD&preview.text_type=custom&query=Noto+Sans+JP

## Acknowledgements

I'd like to thank Mr. Bim in the Slack chat for helping me when I was stuck.

Using the following video, I was able to understand and build an image slider.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pGHOaY4dhAA&t=211s
